# Cloud Chamber NCCP x UTM x KGI

ABSTRACT: Particle Physics is one of the fields in physics that addresses the important question about life and the universe. It questions what constitutes the atoms and what made up this huge universe. This field studies about the fundamental subatomic particles, including both matter, antimatter and the carrier particles of the fundamental interactions as described by quantum field theory. In order to observe and detect the ionising particles, we used a cloud chamber. It is one of the oldest particles and radiation detectors. Interaction of radiations with the saturated vapour inside the cloud chamber creates tracks of different direction, length and weight. A cloud chamber size of aquarium, dry ice and 99% IPA isopropyl alcohol were then used in these projects.  One hour of recording of movement of tracks in the cloud chamber was taken by placing a camera on top of the cloud chamber. For the analysis of the video, we used Python’s OpenCV and NumPy libraries to detect the tracks. Two algorithms were computed to analyse the video, in which we filter the background from the frame, then we proceed with the masking process to remove the artefacts and simplify grouping of the remaining pixels. The nearby grouping was merged and matched for consecutive frames. Finally, we draw contours along the edge of the track and put arrows of direction for the particle tracks. This study works as a foundation and guide in tracking particle tracks and hopefully insight and sparks many people's interest in the developing webs and apps for object detection in the future. 



 
